Blog post about OCI volume sources / KEP-4639 (#46960)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2024-08-15-kubernetes-1.31-image-volume-source.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Image Volume Source alpha feature"

Reviewer: ``suggestion
title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Read Only Volumes Based On OCI Artefacts (alpha)"
```
?

> title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Read Only Volumes Based On OCI Artefacts (alpha)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes 1.31: Read Only Volumes Based On OCI Artifacts (alpha)"
```

Author: @sftim suggested this spelling, so I’d assume it’s preferred?

Reviewer: Whatever the folks in the US would write. I'm from England, so I natively speak a different flavo[u]r English to the folks in the USA, and sometimes I get it wrong.

Author: Alright, changed as suggested :+1:

[container image](/docs/concepts/containers/images/) implementation within the
kubelet, while introducing a new API surface to allow more extended use cases.

For example, users could share a configuration file among multiple containers in
a pod without including the file in the main image, so that they can minimize
security risks and the overall image size. They can also package and distribute
binary artifacts using OCI images and mount them directly into Kubernetes pods,
so that they can streamline their CI/CD pipeline as an example.

Data scientists, MLOps engineers, or AI developers, can mount large language
model weights or machine learning model weights in a pod alongside a
model-server, so that they can efficiently serve them without including them in
the model-server container image. They can package these in an OCI object to
take advantage of OCI distribution and ensure efficient model deployment. This
allows them to separate the model specifications/content from the executables
that process them.

Another use case is that security engineers can use a public image for a malware
scanner and mount in a volume of private (commercial) malware signatures, so

> that they can load those signatures without baking the own combined image (which

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that they can load those signatures without baking their own combined image (which
```

might not be allowed by the copyright on the public image). Those files work

> regardless of the OS or version of the scanning software.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
regardless of the OS or version of the scanner software.
```

> But in long term it will be up to **you** as and end user of this project to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But in the long term it will be up to **you** as an end user of this project to
```

> outline further important use cases for the new `ImageVolume` feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outline further important use cases for the new feature.
```
The feature is important here, not the name of the feature gate.

[SIG Node](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/54a67f5/sig-node/README.md)
is happy to retrieve any feedback or suggestions for further enhancements to
allow more advanced usage scenarios. Feel free to provide feedback by either
using the [Kubernetes Slack (#sig-node)](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/sig-node)

> channel or the [SIG Node mailing list](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-node).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
channel or the [SIG Node mailinglist](https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-node).
```

> ## Detailed Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Detailed example {#example}
```

like this can be created:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: pod
spec:
  containers:
    - name: test
      image: registry.k8s.io/e2e-test-images/echoserver:2.3
      volumeMounts:
        - name: volume
          mountPath: /volume
  volumes:
    - name: volume
      image:
        reference: quay.io/crio/artifact:v1
        pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
```

The pod declares a new volume using the `image.reference` of
`quay.io/crio/artifact:v1`, which refers to an OCI object containing two files.
The `pullPolicy` behaves in the same way as for container images and allows the
following values:

- `Always`: the kubelet always attempts to pull the reference and the container
  creation will fail if the pull fails.
- `Never`: the kubelet never pulls the reference and only uses a local image or
  artifact. The container creation will fail if the reference isn’t present.
- `IfNotPresent`: the kubelet pulls if the reference isn’t already present on
  disk. The container creation will fail if the reference isn’t present and the
  pull fails.

The `volumeMounts` field is indicating that the container with the name `test`
should mount the volume under the path `/volume`.

> If we now create the pod:

Reviewer: (nit) Better to [address the reader as “you”](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#address-the-reader-as-you)

```shell
kubectl apply -f pod.yaml
```

And exec into it:

```shell
kubectl exec -it pod -- sh
```

Then we’re able to investigate what has been mounted:

```console
/ # ls /volume
dir   file
/ # cat /volume/file
2
/ # ls /volume/dir
file
/ # cat /volume/dir/file
1
```

**We managed to consume an OCI artifact using Kubernetes!**

> The container runtime pulled the image (or artifact), mounted it to the
> container and made it finally available for direct usage. There are a bunch of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The container runtime pulls the image (or artifact), mounts it to the
container and makes it finally available for direct usage. There are a bunch of
```

details in the implementation, which closely align to the existing image pull
behavior of the kubelet. For example:

- If a `:latest` tag as `reference` is provided, then the `pullPolicy` will
  default to `Always`, while in any other case it will default to `IfNotPresent`
  if unset.
- The volume gets re-resolved if the pod gets deleted and recreated, which means
  that new remote content will become available on pod recreation. A failure to
  resolve or pull the image during pod startup will block containers from
  starting and may add significant latency. Failures will be retried using
  normal volume backoff and will be reported on the pod reason and message.
- Pull secrets will be assembled in the same way as for the container image by
  looking up node credentials, service account image pull secrets, and pod spec
  image pull secrets.
- The OCI object gets mounted in a single directory by merging the manifest
  layers in the same way as for container images.

> - The volume will be mounted read-only (`ro`) and non-executable files

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The volume is mounted as read-only (`ro`) and non-executable files
```

  (`noexec`).

> - Sub path mounts for containers are not supported

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Sub-path mounts for containers are not supported
```
